TN_Exodus_0_17:8-13
Amalek came and fought with Israel at Rephidim. Moses said to Joshua, “Pick some troops*troops Lit. “participants whose involvement defines the depicted situation”; trad. “men.” See the Dictionary under ’ish. for us, and go out and do battle with Amalek. Tomorrow I will station myself on the top of the hill, with the rod of God in my hand.” Joshua did as Moses told him and fought with Amalek, while Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. Then, whenever Moses held up his hand, Israel prevailed; but whenever he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses’ hands grew heavy; so they took a stone and put it under him and he sat on it, while Aaron and Hur, one on each side, supported his hands; thus his hands remained steady until the sun set. And Joshua overwhelmed the people of Amalek*the people of Amalek Lit. “Amalek and his people.” with the sword.

TN_Isaiah_0_11:1–12:6
But a shoot shall grow out of the stump of Jesse,
A twig shall sprout from his stock. The spirit of GOD shall alight upon him:
A spirit of wisdom and insight,
A spirit of counsel and valor,
A spirit of devotion and reverence for GOD. He shall sense the truthaHe shall sense the truth Lit. “His sensing [shall be]”; meaning of Heb. uncertain. by his reverence for GOD:
He shall not judge by what his eyes behold,
Nor decide by what his ears perceive. Thus he shall judge the poor with equity
And decide with justice for the lowly of the land.
He shall strike down a landba land Emendation yields “the ruthless.” with the rod of his mouth
And slay the wicked with the breath of his lips. Justice shall be the girdle of his loins,
And faithfulness the girdle of his waist. The wolf shall dwell with the lamb,
The leopard lie down with the kid;
The calf, the beast of prey, and the fatlingcThe calf, the beast of prey, and the fatling 1QIsᵃ reads: “The calf and the beast of prey shall feed”; so too the Septuagint. together,
With a little child to herd them. The cow and the bear shall graze,
Their young shall lie down together;
And the lion, like the ox, shall eat straw. A babe shall play
Over a viper’s hole,
And an infant passdpass Meaning of Heb. uncertain. its hand
Over an adder’s den. In all of My sacred mounteMy sacred mount I.e., the Holy Land; cf. Exod. 15.17; Ps. 78.54.
Nothing evil or vile shall be done;
For the land shall be filled with devotion to GOD
As water covers the sea. In that day,
The stock of Jesse that has remained standing
Shall become a standard to peoples—
Nations shall seek his counsel
And his abode shall be honored.
In that day, my Sovereign will apply a divine hand again to redeeming the other partfthe other part I.e., the part outside the Holy Land; lit. “the rest that will remain.” of this people from Assyria—as also from Egypt, Pathros, Cush, Elam, Shinar, Hamath, and the coastlands. [God] will hold up a signal to the nations
And assemble the banished of Israel,
And gather the dispersed of Judah
From the four corners of the earth. Then Ephraim’s envy shall cease
And Judah’s harassment shall end;
Ephraim shall not envy Judah,
And Judah shall not harass Ephraim. They shall pounce on the back of Philistia to the west,
And together plunder the peoples of the east;
Edom and Moab shall be subject to them
And the children of Ammon shall obey them.
GOD will dry up the tongue of the Egyptian sea—and will raise a hand over the Euphrates with a mighty windga mighty wind Lit. “the might of His wind.” Meaning of Heb. uncertain. and break it into seven wadis, so that it can be trodden dry-shod. Thus there shall be a highway for the other parththe other part See note at v. 11. of this people out of Assyria, such as there was for Israel when it left the land of Egypt.In that day, you shall say:
“I give thanks to You, O GOD!
Although You were wroth with me,
Your wrath has turned back and You comfort me. Behold the God who gives me triumph!
I am confident, unafraid;
For YahaYah A shortened form of this deity’s personal name, which is written as y-h-w-h.—GOD—is my strength and might,bmight In contrast to others “song.”
And has been my deliverance.” Joyfully shall you draw water
From the fountains of triumph, And you shall say on that day:
“Praise GOD, proclaim the divine name.
Make God’s deeds known among the peoples;
Declare that the divine name is exalted. Hymn GOD,
Who has done gloriously;
Let this be made known
In all the world! Oh, shout for joy,
You who dwell in Zion!
For great in your midst
Is the Holy One of Israel.”
